Project Paranoid
Overview

Paranoid is a project that checks for well-known weaknesses in cryptographic artifacts such as public keys, digital signatures, and general pseudorandom numbers. This library contains implementations and optimizations of existing techniques from the literature. The motivation stems from cases where the generation of these artifacts has been flawed.

Goal

The goal is to increase confidence in cryptography use cases both inside and outside the organization.

When dealing with asymmetric encryption, cryptographic artifacts usually are:

Generated by internal tools (e.g., Boringssl or Tink), or
Generated by third-party tools that can be checked for vulnerabilities (e.g., using Wycheproof), or
Generated by third-party tools and/or hardware or software black boxes that cannot be inspected.

Paranoid can test any cryptographic artifact but is primarily motivated to detect weaknesses in third-party black boxes. It can be used even when the source code is not accessible.

The project aims to detect both known and unknown vulnerabilities. While detecting known vulnerabilities is straightforward, identifying new vulnerabilities is more difficult and may require large sets of artifacts.

Feedback and contributions regarding weak cryptographic implementations are encouraged. The project is continuously evolving, and new detection methods are added as weaknesses are discovered.

Getting Started

Documentation for implemented checks is located in docs
. Usage examples are available in the examples
 folder or in the unit tests (*test.py files). These demonstrate testing of various crypto artifacts.

Installation

Clone the repository:

git clone https://github.com/google/paranoid_crypto.git && cd paranoid_crypto

Note: Tested on Debian stable (bookworm). Requires python3.11 or newer.

Install dependencies:

sudo apt update && sudo apt install python3 python3-full python3-pip python3-pybind11 python3-fpylll python3-gmpy2 protobuf-compiler

Create and activate a virtual environment:

python3 -m venv --system-site-packages ~/paranoid-venv
source ~/paranoid-venv/bin/activate

Install the Python package:

python3 -m pip install .

Run unit tests to verify installation:

cd paranoid_crypto && python3 -m unittest discover -b -p "*test.py"
Docker

A Docker container can also be used.

Build the image:

docker build -t paranoid-img .

Run the container:

docker run --name paranoid-container -it paranoid-img

Inside the container, run tests as above to verify installation.

Preliminary Results

Analyses of cryptographic artifacts from large-scale certificate logs indicate:

TestName	Severity	Number of Weak Artifacts
CheckOpensslDenylist	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	3989
CheckROCA	SEVERITY_HIGH	2875
CheckGCD	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	1860
CheckFermat	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	36
CheckContinuedFractions	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	16
CheckBitPatterns	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	6
CheckPermutedBitPatterns	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	6
CheckKeypairDenylist	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	4
CheckPollardpm1	SEVERITY_CRITICAL	1

Expired or revoked certificates are included. Active vulnerable certificates have been reported for revocation.

About

This library is developed and maintained by a security team and is not an officially supported product. Contributions, bug reports, and feature requests are welcome.
